feat(core-node)!: iota-archival removal (#11645)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/operator/common/archives.mdx

The current archival storage format doesn't include historic object versions. 
:::

> As a full node operator, you can enable archival fallback for your full node by specifying the URL of a historical checkpoints store to read from. In a typical configuration, that store trails behind the latest checkpoint by approximately 10 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a full node operator, you can enable archival fallback for your full node by specifying the URL of a checkpoint archive to read from. In a typical configuration, that archive trails behind the latest checkpoint by approximately 10 minutes.
```

Author: Rewritten.

Author: I tried to simplify and clarify this doc, there were a lot of nonsense there.

A full node that starts from scratch can replay, and re-verify, transactions that occurred since IOTA genesis from the given store via configuring the Historical Archive Fallback in the `fullnode.yaml` configuration file to point to the historical checkpoints store.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

IOTA Archival nodes (full nodes that write to an archive) don't store historical state on local storage and don't help query historical data. They serve the purpose of enabling peer nodes to catch up to the latest checkpoint and are useful for auditing and verifying the complete history of all transactions on the network.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

> ## Set Up a Historical Archive Fallback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Checkpoint Archive Fallback
```

Author: Fixed.

> To enable your node to fall back to the historical checkpoints store when peers no longer serve the range it needs, add this to your `fullnode.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable your node to fall back to the checkpoint archive in case peers no longer serve the range it needs, add this to your `fullnode.yaml` file:
```

Author: Rewritten.

```yaml
historical-config:
  # Use https://checkpoints.mainnet.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical for mainnet
  # Use https://checkpoints.testnet.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical for testnet
  historical-url: "https://checkpoints.<mainnet|testnet>.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical"
  # Optional. Number of checkpoints to download in parallel; defaults to 10.

>   batch-size: 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checkpoint-archive-config:
  # Use https://checkpoints.mainnet.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical for mainnet
  # Use https://checkpoints.testnet.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical for testnet
  # Use https://checkpoints.devnet.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical for devnet
 url: "https://checkpoints.<mainnet|testnet|devnet>.iota.cafe/ingestion/historical"
  # Optional. Number of checkpoints to download in parallel; defaults to 10.
  download-concurrency: 10
```

Author: Fixed.
